hello everyone this is shaylen from
shaylen's fairy shop I was recently
working on a chainmail bracelet and took
a video of me making it these here are
just some of the chainmail bracelets
that I've made in various weaves and
this is the weave that I was in the
middle of learning how to make I got it
as a kit from uncommon gift and I didn't
have a tutorial for it or anything but
it was a lot of fun although complicated
and this is what the finished product
looks like now this video is not a
tutorial but it does give you a bit of
insight into the process and maybe for
experience chainmail artists it could be
helpful so these are the little jump
rings wire rings that I'm getting
started with the purple ones are 3.75
millimeter
18 gauge enameled copper and these
silver ones are actually aluminum 5.5
millimeter
18 gauge so I'm opening up a purple one
and sliding on two aluminum ones this is
going to become the basic link for a2
and to chain maille weave so there's the
other purple one this is where you get
the two and two there's two purples and
two silvers and then I'll open it up so
you can see voila
that is one of the individual links on
this weave which I believe is called
Celtic spike or something it's basically
a variation on the barrel weave I'm
opening two of the little purple rings
and then sliding as you can see here a
little bit sliding the two and two link
in the middle of the chain that I'm in
that I was in the process of making and
sandwich in it so you can see this is
creating a barrel weave then I'm going
to fast forward through the bit where I
repeatedly drop the jump rings it's hard
to hold all of this getting a better
grip on the little jump ring sliding it
through the sandwich this is closing the
closing up full sandwich I made of the
aluminum rings now I'm sliding on to
more loose closed aluminum rings and
closing it with my little baby purple
one so voila I have just sandwiched in
and attached another link now my little
baby purple one needs another jump ring
to help it out
so I'm sliding that in and the exact
same spot that I put the previous one on
it's a little bit of complicated to hold
everything
but it was a lot of fun so here I'm just
going to speed through another time of
me making another link just to give you
a little bit more view of it it was a
little hard to record the video my hands
kept getting out of the screen I love
doing chain mail work it's very
repetitive and complicated I was taking
a metals class at school last semester
actually we were working a lot with
sterling silver fine silver soldering
and all that we did a teeny little bit
of chain mail my instructor actually
called my favorite chain maille weave
the Byzantine the idiot's delight
because story goes that only an idiot
would have had the time or inclination
to come up with a weave like that and
sit through it but I really enjoyed
doing it especially if I've got a good
audio book or show in the background
this part here is me making one of my
little Czech glass leaf flowers I take
five different leaf beads and 26 gauge
sterling silver plated wire and I weave
the wire front and back across all of
the leaves so that it creates a nice
sturdy flower then I've got one of this
for ski I can't pronounce it glass
pearls attached to the flower and then
weaving on the little loops at the side
that let me attach the flower to the
chainmail bracelet proper it's a
complicated wire wrapping process but
once you get the hang of it it's really
not too bad I make a lot of these every
day so gotten pretty fast at it and
sometime I might do a proper tutorial on
it it would take about five minutes to
teach that in and of itself but I'm
working on this little flower to add to
the chainmail bracelet I can always make
chain mail bracelets or any jewelry with
just the plain chain mail but when I
have the freedom to I like to add a bit
of flare of my own into the flower now
here I'm adjusting the length of the
bracelet because it was too short
originally and there it is on me with
the toggle clasp
I like the purples and then the purpley
blue violet of the flower on it one of
my favorite things about chainmail is
just how sturdy it is here you can see I
yank it and it's not budging anywhere
even the wire wrapping is
gonna go anywhere chinma is just really
interesting because it's these little
pieces of metal and they're sturdy but
when woven together just so that it's so
fluid and delicate and it's so
interesting that this technique used to
make armor and the medieval ages has
become such a colorful and delicate
looking jewelry decoration for today
it's one of my favorite things to do and
I really hope you've enjoyed the sneak
peek into how I make chainmail jewelry